Add Airflow integration (#5232)
DataDog/integrations-core: airflow/README.md

# Agent Check: Airflow

## Overview

The Datadog Agent collects many metrics from Airflow, including those for:

> - DAGs (Directed Acyclic Graphs): Number of DAG processes, DAG bag size, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DAGs (Directed Acyclic Graphs): Number of DAG processes, DAG bag size, etc.
```

> - DAGs (Directed Acyclic Graphs): Number of DAG processes, DAG bag size, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DAGs (Directed Acyclic Graphs): Number of DAG processes, DAG bag size, etc.
```

> - Tasks: Task failures, successes, killed, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tasks: Task failures, successes, killed, etc.
```

> - Pools: Open slots, used slots, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pools: Open slots, used slots, etc.
```

> - Executors: Open slots, queued tasks, running tasks, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Executors: Open slots, queued tasks, running tasks, etc.
```

> - and more

Reviewer: delete this line, it is implied by the word "including" in line 5

Author: Sure. Removed.

> Metrics are collected via [Airflow Statsd](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/stable/metrics.html) plugin sent to Datadog Agent [DogStatsD][8].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics are collected through the [Airflow StatsD](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/stable/metrics.html) plugin and sent to Datadog's [DogStatsD][8].
```

> In addition to metrics, the Datadog Agent also sends Service Checks related to Airflow's health.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to metrics, the Datadog Agent also sends service checks related to Airflow's health.
```

## Setup

### Installation

> All three steps below are needed for Airflow integration to work properly. Before you begin, you should [install the Datadog Agent][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All three steps below are needed for the Airflow integration to work properly. Before you begin, you [install the Datadog Agent][9].
```

#### Step 1: Configure Airflow to collect health metrics and service checks

Configure the Airflow check included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package to collect health metrics and service checks.

> Edit the `airflow.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your airflow service checks. See the [sample airflow.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the `airflow.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your Airflow service checks. See the [sample airflow.d/conf.yaml][3] for all available configuration options.
```

#### Step 2: Connect Airflow to DogStatsD (included in the Datadog Agent) by using Airflow `statsd` feature to collect metrics

> 1. Install the [Airflow Statsd plugin][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the [Airflow StatsD plugin][1].
```

    ```
    pip install 'apache-airflow[statsd]'
    ```

> 2. Update Airflow configuration file `airflow.cfg` by adding the following configs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Update the Airflow configuration file `airflow.cfg` by adding the following configs:
```

    ```
    [scheduler]
    statsd_on = True
    statsd_host = localhost
    statsd_port = 8125
    statsd_prefix = airflow
    ```

> 3. Update [Datadog Agent main configuration file][10] `datadog.yaml` by adding the following configs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Update the [Datadog Agent main configuration file][10] `datadog.yaml` by adding the following configs:
```

1. Install the [Airflow StatsD plugin][1].

    ```
    pip install 'apache-airflow[statsd]'
    ```

2. Update the Airflow configuration file `airflow.cfg` by adding the following configs:

    ```
    [scheduler]
    statsd_on = True
    statsd_host = localhost
    statsd_port = 8125
    statsd_prefix = airflow
    ```

3. Update the [Datadog Agent main configuration file][10] `datadog.yaml` by adding the following configs:

    ```yaml
    # dogstatsd_mapper_cache_size: 1000  # default to 1000
    dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
      - name: airflow
        prefix: 'airflow.'
        mappings:
          - match: 'airflow.*_start'
            name: 'airflow.job.start'
            tags:
              job_name: '$1'
          - match: 'airflow.*_end'
            name: 'airflow.job.end'
            tags:
              job_name: '$1'
          - match: 'airflow.operator_failures_*'
            name: 'airflow.operator_failures'
            tags:
              operator_name: '$1'
          - match: 'airflow.operator_successes_*'
            name: 'airflow.operator_successes'
            tags:
              operator_name: '$1'

>           - match: 'airflow\.dag_processing\.last_runtime\.(.*)'

Reviewer 2: Why do we need a regex here (and elsewhere)? Asking as I see we use `airflow.pool.open_slots.*` below, so `airflow.dag_processing.last_runtime.*` should be supported?

Author: That's because `dag_file` represent a path that can contain `.` character. Hence using `airflow.dag_processing.last_runtime.*` won't work.

All metrics with `dag_file` are using regex.

Reviewer 2: Gotcha, thanks!
